When designing GUIs I like to start by planning out a desired look and functionality.  For this project, those criteria were already laid out for me.  For the look of the program, we were allowed to change the look if we felt the need, but I liked the idea of trying to mimic the example as close as possible.  In terms of functionality, I took the same approach and set out to mimic the functionality of the example, with a few additions.  Problem wise, I have not done any of the prior GUI labs, so when I set out to do this project I also set out to learn the ins and outs of JPanel and JFrame.  Admittedly, it is all very simple and self explanatory, with the most complicated part being the layout.  The layout for me was a nightmare and the GridBagLayout has so many variables that I was not exactly sure the function of each.  The main variables I changed were gridx, gridy, and insets, as these are the ones that actually made a noticeable visual impact for me.
For designing the individual elements of the GUI, as I was replicating the example, I had very limited choice.  Most of the elements had a very obvious way of creating them.  Most of what I did seemed very straightforward, with my only goal being to create a functioning program.  The first thing I set out to do was mimic the visuals of the example, leaving out most functionality.  Once the look and feel of the example was recreated, I set out to do the functionality, progressing from the top of the program to the bottom.  The only problem I ran into through the whole project was layout.  I hate GridBagLayout unless I am missing some very obvious variables that would solve my issues.  In the end the whole program is inset a few inches from the left side of the frame.  No idea why, I gave up.

HammingFrame.java
This class contains the main method which just creates a new HammingFrame.  A HammingFrame creates a new JFrame, then a new HammingPanel.  The panel is added to the frame.  The size of the frame is then set to the size of the panel.  Default close operation is set to exit, and the frame is set to visible.

HammingPanel.java
HammingPanel()
When the constructor is called, a new JPanel is created with GridBagLayout.  All the object variables are then defined and set to provide the functionality and look expected.  After each variable is set, they are added to the panel using GridBagConstraints.  This part is a mess, I had no idea what I was doing.
readMesonet()
Reads the Mesonet.txt file and loads the city names into an array, which is used for the drop down menu and calculating hamming distance.
calculateHammingTotals(String)
Takes the city that will be used to calculate hamming distance as an input.  The distance arrays and the total city distance arrays are reset before any cities are added to prevent overflowing the array.  I chose size 250 because I didn't quite feel like counting the actual number of cities in the Mesonet.txt.  The first part of the for loop compares the characters in the main city and city at the current point in the mesonetData array, if the characters are different, count is incremented.  The second part of the for loop adds the city from the file to an array for the distance count that was calculated.
actionPerformed(ActionEvent)
Handled here are the functionality of the three buttons.  The ‘Show Station’ button reads the value of the hamming distance slider and lists the cities with a distance equal to that, adding them to the JTextArea as they are read.  The ‘Calculate HD’ button sets the JTextFields for each distance to the value from the distance count array.  The ‘Add Station’ button reads the string from the JTextField, leaving off any letters after the 4th, and adds it to the mesonetData array.  The station list drop down is then updated to have the new list of cities.
stateChanged(ChangeEvent)
Basically just handles the hamming distance slider.  When the slider is changed, the hamming distance text field is updated.
